

Battelle’s Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and Explosives (CBRNE) Business Line is currently seeking candidates for a full time, permanent position as a Molecular Biologist I. This full time position is located in Columbus, Ohio.

    With guidance from senior scientists, support the design, planning, and execution of laboratory experiments rooted in molecular biology, virology, microbiology, and biochemistry within structured regulatory and quality frameworks (e.g. Select Agent regulations, ISO 9001 and GLP).
    Support reporting efforts to include preparation of technical data for reports and presentations, peer-reviewed publications, and client meetings.
    Perform/direct routine and non-routine laboratory procedures independently including: molecular biology procedures including:
    Assay development and adaption of assays to new purposes,
    Mammalian cell propagation, cell line expansion and maintenance.
    Basic virology techniques (propagation, titration, replication kinetics experiments)
    Molecular biology techniques (incl. molecular cloning, PCR, qPCR)
    Biochemical assay techniques (e.g., Electrochemiluminescence, ELISA, SDS-PAGE, Western Blotting)

Responsibilities

    Performing experiments independently and under the guidance of senior scientists;
    Developing new assays under the guidance of senior scientists;
    Troubleshooting testing process/procedures;
    Preparing/reporting technical progress and results;
    Preparing presentations;
    Developing and performing dilutions;
    Preparing reagents;
    Performance/direction of routine and non-routine laboratory procedures to support analytical operations including:
    Inspection, testing, maintenance, and documentation of laboratory equipment;
    Operation of lab equipment including pipettes, balances, pH meters, centrifuges, plate readers, gel electrophoresis system, gel imagers, biosafety cabinets, microscopes, etc.;
    Training less experienced staff.
    Following established safety guidelines to safely work with hazardous/infectious materials;
    Professional interaction with clients.


Some domestic travel is possible but not anticipated.
Key Qualifications

    Bachelor’s degree plus 2 years of experience in virology
    Willingness to work in a Biosafety Level 3 laboratory environment
    Ability to understand, follow, and draft written procedures
    Good oral and written communication skills
    Experience working within laboratory quality management systems (e.g., ISO 9001, ISO17025, GLP)
    Ability to work in a team environment
    Experience training less experienced staff in laboratory techniques
    Sole U.S. citizenship, with the ability to obtain and maintain required government security clearances as a condition of employment
    Sufficiently medically fit to work in the laboratory to perform assigned duties including the ability to wear personal protection equipment (PPE), lift up to 50 pounds, participate in vaccination programs as needed, and work in the proximity of hazardous/infectious materials including human pathogens.

Preferred Qualifications

    Master’s degree in molecular biology, virology, biochemistry or related fields;
    Biosafety Level 3 laboratory experience;
    Experience with Biological select agents and toxins;
    Experience in molecular cloning;
    Experience in genome editing and protein synthesis;
    Experience in viral reverse genetics systems;
    Teaching experience;
    Experience developing new technical procedures;
    Experience working in GLP laboratories


Benefits: Live an Extraordinary Life
We care about your well-being, not just on the job. Battelle offers comprehensive and competitive benefits to help you live your best life.

    Balance life through a compressed work schedule: Most of our team follows a flexible, compressed work schedule that allows for every other Friday off—giving you a dedicated day to accomplish things in your personal life without using vacation time.
    Take time to recharge: You get paid time off to support work-life balance and keep motivated.
    Prioritize wellness: Stay healthy with medical, dental, and vision coverage with wellness incentives and benefits plus a variety of optional supplemental benefits.
    Better together: Coverage for partners, gender-affirming care and health support, and family formation support.
    Build your financial future: Build financial stability with an industry-leading 401(k) retirement savings plan. For most employees, we put in 5 percent whether you contribute or not, and match your contributions on top of that.
    Advance your education: Tuition assistance is available to pursue higher education.
    Flexible work arrangements: You have options for where you work and when you work.



A Work Environment Where You Succeed
For brilliant minds in science, technology, engineering and business operations, Battelle is the place to do the greatest good by solving humanity’s most pressing challenges and creating a safer, healthier and more secure world.

You will have the opportunity to thrive in a culture that inspires you to:

    Apply your talent to challenging and meaningful projects
    Receive select funding to pursue ideas in scientific and technological discovery
    Collaborate with world-class experts in an inclusive environment
    Nurture and develop the next generation of scientific leaders
    Give back to and improve our communities
The Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine (HJF) is a nonprofit organization dedicated to advancing military medicine. We serve military, medical, academic and government clients by administering, managing and supporting preeminent scientific programs that benefit members of the armed forces and civilians alike. Since its founding in 1983, HJF has served as a vital link between the military medical community and its federal and private partners. HJF's support and administrative capabilities allow military medical researchers and clinicians to maintain their scientific focus and accomplish their research goals.

This position will be in support of the Enteric Diseases Department (EDD), within the Infectious Diseases Directorate (IDD), located at the Naval Medical Research Center (NMRC) in Silver Spring, MD.

The Research Assistant (RA) needed to provide laboratory and technical support to enteric disease research in the Operationally Relevant Infection (ORI) Department at the Naval Medical Research Center. RA would work in collaboration with senior technical and professional staff on projects related to Campylobacter and Enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC) disease, candidate vaccines, and R&D for anti-diarrheal products. RA would perform a variety of molecular, microbiological, and immunological techniques as needed for specific project aims, such as: microbiological cell cultures, tissue culture, bacterial genetic techniques, characterization of bacterial growth, motility, or gene expression under variable conditions using motility assays or sequencing; processing and analysis of biological samples from small animal models and human clinical studies. RA would also be responsible for technical assistance in experiment preparation and maintenance of specialized reagents and equipment, and administrative duties including maintaining laboratory records and databases for sample storage.

HJF is seeking a Research Assistant I to perform research and/or development in collaboration with others for projects. The Research Assistant provides laboratory and technical support to senior technical and professional staff and solves less complex problems in carrying out research projects in a laboratory environment. This is the first of four levels within the Research Assistant series.

Responsibilities

    Performs laboratory projects under direction of senior staff, including the collection and organization of data. Follows instructions and standard operating procedures.
    Performs microbiology, molecular biology and immunology experiments under supervision of senior staff.
    Performs experiments with small animal model or human clinical study samples including serum and other tissue samples.
    Performs data entry in accurate, timely, and efficient manner. Maintains clear and accurate data collection records and inventories in accordance with standard practice.
    Maintains supplies in the laboratory and ensures proper cleanliness and sanitation.
    Assists in the preparation of technical reports, summaries, and protocols. Makes detailed observations on experiments.
    May perform other duties and responsibilities as assigned or directed by the supervisor. This may include attendance of and participation in required training for role.

Required Knowledge, Skills and Abilities

    Seeking talent with scientific fundamentals and analytical background, technical knowledge related to bacterial pathogens, mammalian innate and adaptive immunity, and host-pathogen interactions.
    Preferred experience with microbiological techniques, specifically handing bacteria with aseptic technique under BSL-1 and/or BSL-2 conditions, and molecular biology techniques (PCR, DNA isolation, cloning, etc.).
    Familiarity with standard analysis software (Excel, GraphPad Prism or similar). Additional experience with specialized data analysis tools (DNAstar, FlowJo, FCS Express, R) and the quantitative background to perform analyses is preferred.
    Ability to work both independently and with a team, follow detailed instructions, collect observations and analyze data.
    Demonstrated oral and written communication, interpersonal skills, and ability to work on multiple projects in a dynamic environment.

Physical Capabilities

    Lifting: Requires lifting materials up to 25 lbs.

Work Environment

    This position will take place primarily in a laboratory setting.

Education and Experience

    Bachelor's Degree in Biology, Chemistry, or related scientific field is required.
    Minimum of 0-2 years experience required.
At the trainee level, the incumbent, under the direction of a journeyman or unit supervisor, receives, examines, and analyzes evidence for the presence of biological material and subsequent DNA tests in connection with criminal cases in the Biology discipline. The incumbent progresses through the series, gaining knowledge and skills, to work independently and become an expert able to testify in court.Position Description The Michigan State Police (MSP) is a full-service law enforcement agency with statewide jurisdiction, providing over 60 different services either directly to Michigan residents or in support of other law enforcement agencies. The MSP personnel most visible to the public are the uniform troopers whose primary responsibilities include traffic enforcement, crime prevention and investigation, and community engagement and service.

EXAMPLE OF DUTIES
EducationPossession of a bachelor’s degree in forensic science, chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, or a related pure or applied science. Must have successfully completed a minimum of nine (9) cumulative semester hours or equivalent covering the following subject areas: biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology and course work or training in statistics and/or population genetics as it applies to forensic DNA analysis. ExperienceForensic Scientist 9No specific type or amount is required. Forensic Scientist 10One year of professional experience working in a crime laboratory carrying out a variety of tests, analyses or production and research activities involving chemical, biochemical, biological or physical evidence samples, specimens, or products equivalent to a Forensic Scientist 9. Forensic Scientist P11Two years of professional experience working in a crime laboratory carrying out a variety of tests, analyses or production and research activities involving chemical, biochemical, biological or physical evidence samples, specimens, or products equivalent to a Forensic Scientist, including one year equivalent to a Forensic Scientist 10. 
This position will conduct microbiological assays and maintain quality control at the Fish Health Center, in Lamar, Pennsylvania, supporting all aspects of fishery health management and technical assistance Service offices and partners throughout the Northeast Region. Two associated major aspects of this position will be maintaining and advancing the quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC) program as well as advancing to the next level of Lab Accreditation through the Fish Health Section of the American Fisheries Society. Incumbent will coordinate laboratory standard operating procedures (SOPs)with other USFWS Fish Health Centers. The Lamar Fish Health Center is located in central Pennsylvania, surrounded by forests and stream which provide many recreational opportunities, and between two larger towns with local universities and larger communities.

As a Microbiologist your duties will include, but are not limited to, the following:

    Conducts viral, bacterial and parasite sample collection from aquatic animals in laboratory or field setting. Responsible for bacteriology laboratory assays and for bacteriological activities including maintenance, drug sensitivity testing, and media prep.
    Maintains microorganism culture collections. Processes and reads slides of aquatic animals or plant tissues. Prepares specific media, dilution buffers, stains, and reagents. Conducts tests for isolation, culturing, and serological identification of a wide range of aquatic animal pathogens.
    With close supervision, ensures standards and quality control requirements for all aquatic animal diagnostic tests are maintained by performing daily quality assurance reviews, maintaining control charts and preparing reports on results of testing. Supports comparison studies, investigative projects or research.
    Reviews and maintains the Center's Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) manual.
    With close supervision, oversees or performs quality control in reference to sample analysis, tests on media, reagents, and equipment. Maintains accurate records in accordance with AFS Laboratory Certification requirements to assure that quality of testing is maintained at a high level.
    Assists with histological and cytological specimen preparation. Assists with molecular assays such as Polymerase Chain Reaction and Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction for the detection and confirmation of aquatic animal pathogens. Responsible for bacteriological activities including maintenance, drug sensitivity testing, and media prep.
    Ensures standards and quality control requirements for all aquatic animal diagnostic tests are maintained by performing daily quality assurance reviews, maintaining control charts and preparing reports on results of testing. Participates in comparison studies, investigative projects or research.
    Performs quality improvement actions for the laboratory including the development of standard operating procedures, equipment calibration, and internal audits. Analyzes laboratory data with basic statistical techniques for the preparation of laboratory result reports.
    Serves as the Center's point of contact for achieving and maintaining Laboratory Certification through the American Fisheries Society (AFS) and coordinates the program with other FWS Fish Health Centers.
    Identifies discrepancies or conditions (instrument malfunction, reagent malfunctions, environment conditions (instrument malfunction, reagent malfunctions, environmental conditions, etc.) that cause erroneous results and takes appropriate corrective actions.
Do you marvel at the complexity of biology and seek to leverage molecular biology in creative ways?


Do you want to build a future in which engineered organisms are central to how we live our daily lives and to our National Security?


Do you love contributing your genetic engineering subject matter expertise to an interdisciplinary team of scientists, focused on application development for National Defense?


If you answered yes to these questions, we 're looking for someone like you to join our team in the Biological Sciences Group, here at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Lab.


We are seeking a highly motivated molecular genetic engineer to contribute to a team focused on engineering microbial metabolism.


As part of the Biological Sciences Group, in the Research Exploratory Development Department, you will be at the forefront of APL 's mission to provide impactful contributions to critical challenges. You will contribute to building outstanding expertise in molecular biology, in the pursuit of challenges in national security.


As a Molecular Genetic Engineering Associate you will...

    Drive experimental execution across diverse projects involving genetic and metabolic engineering.
    Work with a variety of model and non-model microbial systems.
    Assist and collaborate with scientists in support of laboratory-based experimentation.
    Develop, troubleshoot, and optimize experimental protocols and study design.
    Assist with basic laboratory functions, including lab cleanliness, organization, and equipment upkeep.
    Be a part of a team providing leadership in the development of new opportunities and support internal initiatives, driving technical innovation and growth in areas relevant to APL sponsors.
    Communicate key findings both internally at across team lab meetings and externally to sponsors.
    Participate in the broader APL community by presenting data to interdisciplinary groups and to department management.


Qualifications


You meet our minimum qualifications for the job if you...


    Have a B.S. in Molecular Biology, Biochemistry, Microbiology, or a similar field with at least 1 year of experience in a laboratory setting.
    Are proficient in molecular biology techniques, including genetic design, construction of plasmids, and routine biochemistry assays.
    Have extensive experience with culture and genetic manipulation of bacteria or yeast.
    Have experience designing, running, and troubleshooting a wide range of biological assays.
    Have a combination of the following skills that include DNA and RNA manipulation and analysis, qPCR, protein analysis, plate-reader assay development, microscopy techniques, and microbial cell culture.
    Are able to obtain a Secret level security clearance. If selected, you will be subject to a government security clearance investigation and must meet the requirements for access to classified information. Eligibility requirements include U.S. citizenship.
    Can demonstrate that you are fully vaccinated against COVID-19. To ensure the safety and well-being of the community, APL has established a policy requiring that all staff be vaccinated against COVID-19. All staff members must provide proof of full vaccination or have an approved medical or religious accommodation by their start date.

You 'll go above and beyond our minimum requirements if you...

    Have a M.S. in Molecular Biology, Biochemistry, Microbiology, or a similar field with at least 3 years of experience in a laboratory setting.
    Have experience in metabolic pathway engineering or strain engineering.
    Have previously cultured non-model or anaerobic organisms.
    Have familiarity with analytical chemistry techniques and equipment such as HPLC, GC/MS, or LC/MS.
    Have experience with plant, algae, or microbiome systems.
Description: CUBRC’s Biological & Medical Sciences Group is seeking a Biologist based in Charlottesville, VA. Travel outside of the continental U.S. (OCONUS) may be required. Primary duties will include:

    Performing work in both CONUS and OCONUS laboratories to analyze collected samples.
    Developing, using and improving analysis methods for the measurement of a wide range of biological organisms in various matrices using standard techniques including: - Culture and maintenance of organisms (viruses and bacteria) - Light microscopy with traditional staining and immunoassays (immunofluorescence / ELISA, Western Blot, multiplex immunoassays) - DNA and protein extraction, electrophoresis (blotting, hybridization, and quantification) - PCR, RT-PCR, RT-qPCR, multiplex PCR, etc. - Bioinformatics analysis
    Providing technical expertise and support to the development of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).
    Receiving training and maintaining certification to work in a Biosafety Level 3 containment laboratory.
    Formalizing and executing a preventive maintenance program for equipment and instrumentation and performing general maintenance and repair on instruments as needed (e.g., sequencers, PCR machines).
    Taking photographs of samples, sample matrices, items being analyzed and/or other exhibits to support the analysis, conclusions and reporting of results; and documenting test results and conclusions in the required Laboratory Information System(s) and databases.
    Developing analysis reports that include methods, procedures and analytical data including interpretation of results and annotating the file documentation; and performing technical and/or administrative reviews of files, reports, data sets, results and conclusions.
    Ensuring proper chain-of-custody procedures are followed for all items and samples.
    Maintaining a safe and laboratory work environment in accordance with all documented laboratory procedures.

The position also requires that the selected candidate possesses:

    Strong hands-on laboratory skills with several of the techniques outlined above.
    Excellent organizational skills and communication skills (oral and written) and the ability to appropriately communicate with colleagues, management and clients to plan and execute duties.
    Deep attention to detail and the flexibility and ability to work both independently and as part of a team.

*
Why CUBRC: *

    401K – No waiting period. 100% vested on date of hire.
    3% company contribution in the first year of employment, company contribution increases over time. Employee is not required to contribute to the plan to receive CUBRC contribution.
    Health Insurance – No waiting period – competitive costs.
    Dental, Vision insurance after 6 months – Employer paid benefit for employees and dependents.
    Life Insurance after 6 months – Employer paid benefit for the employee.
    Generous paid time off, unlimited sick time and 9 paid holidays.

Salary Range:
$62,000 - $74,000 dependent upon education, experience, and certifications.
EOE/M/F/V/D
Requirements:
*
THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS MUST BE MET TO BE CONSIDERED FOR THIS POSITION: *
Minimum Qualifications

    BS in Biology, Microbiology, Biochemistry, Chemistry or other related discipline; or 5 years of direct professional experience in laboratory analysis.
    Experience with Microsoft Office software including MS Word, Excel and PowerPoint.
    Ability to obtain and maintain a DoD security clearance (up to TS/SCI).
    U.S. citizenship and eligible for a U.S. Passport.
    A medical examination will be required to ensure ability to perform duties and wear personal protective equipment.

THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS ARE DESIRED BUT NOT REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION:

    An active DoD security clearance (S, TS w/ SCI eligibility; or TS/SCI).
    Previous experience working in the Intelligence Community (IC) environment.
    Experience with Select Agents and working in a BSL-3 facility.
    Bioinformatics, coding, and/or database nucleic acid sequence analysis.
    Experience with Microsoft Office software including Access, Project and Outlook.
    Deployed experience in analytical/operational environment.
    Experience in contract research, working for the federal government and/or private organizations.
This position is part of a team that supports the analytical studies for regulatory submissions of in vitro diagnostic (IVD) products developed by BioFire Diagnostics. The Research Associate I is a technical hourly position with laboratory responsibilities. The Research Associate I works to meet deadlines in a dynamic environment and has the temperament to operate proactively and collaboratively in a team in support of FDA and other regulatory submissions. Tasks will focus on molecular and microbiological experiments and procedures (e.g. nucleic acid extraction, serial dilution, PCR, bacterial and fungal culture, etc.) with associated collection, analysis, verification and recording of data in accordance with established protocols and work instruction documents, regulations, safety requirements, and the quality system. Work is primarily collaborative and requires the ability to effectively and respectfully communicate and coordinate with peers and supervisor(s).

This position requires basic laboratory technical and organizational skills, attention to detail, critical thinking, troubleshooting and problem-solving, and a dedication to the mission and goals of the department and bioMerieux. A Research Associate I may receive general or detailed instruction and supervision on routine work, and detailed instruction and supervision on new procedures and assignments.

Essential Job Duties and Responsibilities


    Performs all work in compliance with company policy and within the guidelines of BioFire's Quality System.
    Follow policies and procedures and conduct oneself professionally and in accordance with the BioFire Diagnostics Employment Handbook.
    Ensure data integrity and accurate record-keeping by collecting, recording (laboratory notebooks and study worksheets), analyzing, and verifying data in compliance with SOPs, WIDs, and Study Protocols.
    Use and maintain laboratory equipment, supplies/inventory, and workspaces according to operational, quality control and safety requirements, protocols, SOPs, and WIDs.
    Perform routine calculations and laboratory techniques, to include solution formulation, dilution, microbial culture and enumeration, nucleic acid extraction, real-time and/or digital PCR, as well as basic graphing and statistical analyses.
    Work in a Biosafety Level 2/2(+) environment with potentially pathogenic microbes, patient samples, and body fluids using sterile technique for contamination and infection control.
    May participate in maintenance of laboratory databases (e.g. for tracking of reagents, organism strains, samples, specimens, etc).
    Act as a good lab citizen and team-member. Coordinate and collaborate with supervisors and peers within and across teams and functional groups for routine lab activities, cleaning, equipment use, specific assigned tasks and projects, and sharing of knowledge, skills, and ideas.
    Participate and contribute to protocol and process development, optimization, revision, and/or execution as well as risk or hazard identification and mitigation; commensurate with knowledge and experience.
    Train others on laboratory and departmental practices and procedures; commensurate with knowledge and experience.
    Develop knowledge and skill in time and task management, experimental design and execution, as well as data compilation, analysis, and presentation (written and/or oral) to supervisors and peers.
    Gain and maintain a working knowledge of current and evolving microbiology and molecular biology principles.
    Attend and participate in all assigned meetings, including company and group meetings.
    Attend and participate in learning and training opportunities.
    Be curious and communicative.
    Performs other duties as assigned.

Qualifications

Training and Education

Requires a Bachelor's degree in a scientific discipline or a minimum of two years of undergraduate education in a scientific discipline with demonstrated laboratory experience and working knowledge of basic chemistry, microbiology and/or molecular biology principles.

Experience

2 years of experience with Laboratory techniques is preferred. Experience in molecular techniques relevant to real-time PCR and sequence analysis; microbiology training and familiarity with Biosafety Level 2 practices a plus.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities

    Must demonstrate skill in basic laboratory technician practices (pipetting, biological and chemical material handling, sterile technique and contamination control, basic concentration and statistical calculations, and accurate record-keeping).
    Basic competency with Microsoft Office (Outlook, Excel, PowerPoint, and Word).

Physical Requirements

    Must be able to safely lift and maneuver 40lbs.
    Must have sufficient manual and visual dexterity for standard laboratory practices (e.g. pipetting, micro centrifuge tube capping/uncapping, syringe manipulation, etc.; reasonable accommodations are applicable).
    Able to wear required personal protective equipment (PPE) and work at a Biosafety Cabinet in a Biosafety Level 2/2+ laboratory environment.
    Must maintain regular and consistent attendance.
 The Starr lab (starr.biochem.utah.edu) at the University of Utah Department of Biochemistry is seeking a laboratory technician to assist in our collaborative and interdisciplinary studies on the molecular evolution of viruses and immunity.

Responsibilities
Key responsibilities will include:

Working collaboratively with lab members to execute complex experimental studies of mutations in viral and immune proteins

Perform experiments (after training) in molecular biology and cloning, microbial culture (yeast, E. coli), flow cytometry and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), next-generation DNA sequencing, mammalian tissue culture, and/or protein biochemistry

Maintain detailed electronic laboratory notebooks

Attend lab meetings, present data, participate in discussions on project development

Contribute to general lab maintenance and reagent production as needed

Read the literature and participate in assay troubleshooting and development to promote the development of research independence

Minimum Qualifications
Bachelor’s degree in biology, chemistry, or other scientific disciplines in a related field or equivalency required; knowledge of complex laboratory techniques, equipment, terminology, materials and substances. Skilled in the use of laboratory equipment, ability to create and analyze statistical calculations and prepare reports required; and demonstrated human relations and effective communication skills also required. OSHA training and certification in animal care and use or the willingness to complete the certification may be required by some departments.

Applicants must demonstrate the potential ability to perform the essential functions of the job as outlined in the position description.

Preferences
Interest in learning new experimental techniques

Skill in written and verbal communication

Ability to work independently and seek guidance when needed

An ideal candidates will be willing to learn and contribute to the lab environment for a minimum of two years

Prior experience with bacterial cloning and molecular biology preferred 
 This is a full-time non-exempt position. This position is part of a team working on a variety of laboratory procedures involving PCR, RT-PCR, and real-time PCR using established methods and techniques under general guidance. This person works closely with research associates in the research lab (including BSL 2). Performs general lab duties, designs, and conducts experiments, collects, and analyzes data, and keeps an accurate record of all work done in accordance with the quality system. Requires some problem-solving skills. Normally receives general instructions on routine work, detailed instruction on new assignments. Will report to a Scientist.


Principal Job Duties and Responsibilities:

    Performs all work in compliance with company policy and within the guidelines of BioFire Defense Quality System.

    Performs diagnostic tests using PCR to check the functionality of several different instruments produced by BioFire.

    Responsible for research and/or development in collaboration with others for assigned projects.

    Performs lab duties and experiments.

    Collects, analyzes, and presents data relating to PCR.

    Contributes to project process within his/her scientific discipline.

    Responsible for maintaining instrument history quality control records.

    Responsible for developing and revising instrument quality control procedures, involving controlled Word and Excel documents.

    Ensures that laboratory notebook for assigned projects/experiments are maintained in accordance with the BioFire Defense Employment Handbook.


Training and Education:

    Requires a bachelor’s degree in a scientific discipline or equivalent and demonstrated working knowledge of scientific principles.


Experience:

    0-3 years’ experience in the field or in a related area.


Skills:

    Basic knowledge of Microsoft Office Applications (MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, MS OneNote).
    Must demonstrate skill in basic laboratory technician practices (pipetting, materials handling, contamination control).
    Demonstrated ability to work as a team player
    Adaptable to changing priorities
    Capable of working in a fast-paced environment to meet deadlines
    Curious mindset with an internal drive for development of new technologies


Physical Requirements:

    Ability to safely lift and maneuver ~20 lbs.
    Must have sufficient manual and visual dexterity for standard laboratory practices (e.g., pipetting, micro centrifuge tube capping/uncapping, syringe manipulation, etc.).
    Ability to wear required personal protective equipment (PPE) and work with a variety of organisms and body fluids in a Biosafety Level 2/2+ laboratory environment.
    If unable to meet these requirements, reasonable accommodations will be made if supervisor is notified.

Van Andel Institute (VAI), a nonprofit biomedical research and science education institute, is seeking to hire a Genomics Core Associate within our Genomics Core. The Genomics Core provides high throughput genomics support for Van Andel Research Institute and collaborating institutions. We provide access to next generation sequencing and beadarray technology, perform complex molecular biology assays, and offer expertise to train researchers to use these resources effectively. To continue to provide quality, expeditious assistance for an ever expanding number of service requests, we are looking for a full-time individual to join our team.

As a member on our team, your first and foremost responsibility will be to provide VAI scientists with high quality next-generation sequencing data. As a key individual in the Genomics Core you must demonstrate the ability to perform and acquire new skills in the operation of Illumina technologies (NextSeq500, NovaSeq6000, and iScan), NGS library preparation, and other relevant genomic techniques. You will be responsible for supporting daily operations, including but not limited to evaluating sample quality and preparing samples for sequencing, executing protocols, running and maintaining sophisticated equipment, logging and tracking samples, training new users, and other general duties. You must be able to work effectively in a team environment and develop productive relationships with Core users.

This job might be right for you if:

    You are interested in helping to build a sustainable team dedicated to advancing scientific knowledge and providing top quality customer service.
    You are technology-minded and interested in high throughput automation and sequencing instrumentation.
    You love taking on difficult challenges and finding the best solution whether it be tried-and-true or cutting edge.
    You enjoy helping others, and you are patient and levelheaded.
    You pay attention to detail. Every project, big or small, is worth doing well, every single time.
    You are motivated and driven. You take ownership of your projects. You like learning new things and advancing your skillset. If you don’t know the answer, you’ll dig until you find it.
    You enjoy collaborating and working as a team. You respect the skills each team member brings to the table while still being willing to provide constructive criticism.

To join our team, you will need to have at least:

    A Bachelor’s Degree in Biology, Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, or similar field
    Hands on experience in DNA/RNA extraction, nucleic acid quantification, PCR amplification, qPCR, and/or similar molecular biology techniques and protocols
    Academic and practical understanding of cellular and molecular biology, biochemistry and/or genetics
    Ability to effectively communicate in-person and remotely
    Strong skillset in data and project management and project tracking

Additional helpful experience will include:

    Demonstrable skills in NGS library preparation, Illumina sequencing technology, GWAS and/or microarrays
    Experience in functional areas such as single cell sequencing or bisulfite based methodologies
    Experience in protein or histological cell-based assays
    Experience in R, command line, or other programming languages

    Work involves conduct of experiments using bacterial pathogens requiring Biosafety Level 3 (BSL-3) and Animal Biosafety Level 3 (ABSL-3) high containment conditions.
    Knowledge of the technical methods and procedures developed by the scientific community for studying the efficacy of therapeutic anti-infectives on bacterial pathogens in vitro and in vivo.
    Work involves in vivo testing using animal models exposed to aerosolized bacteria.
    Ability to perform sophisticated analyses on specimens from appropriate animal models to quantify therapeutic efficacy of novel compounds.
    Experience and expertise are required to conduct minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of antibiotics using Clinical and Laboratory standards Institute (CLSI) guidelines.
    Work involves the skill, knowledge, and ability to propagate and maintain bacterial cultures, manage extensive BSAT-bacterial collections in the electronic DOD database (IAW with all state, federal, and DOD regulations).
    Experience and expertise are required to plan and execute pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics studies in mice.

Requirements
Conditions of Employment

    Appointment may be subject to a suitability or fitness determination, as determined by a completed background investigation.
    Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel is 10%.
    Must be able to obtain and maintain Secret Security Clearance.
    This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health and ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position.
    Pre-employment and random drug testing is required.
    Must participate in the Biological Personnel Reliability Program (BPRP).
    Must participate in the Occupational Health Surveillance Program (OHSP).
    Two year probationary period may be required.

Qualifications
USAMRIID is participating in an alternative personnel system known as the Personnel Demonstration Project (PDP). The DE-03 payband is equivalent to the GS-09 step 1 to GS-11 step 10 level. In keeping with the Demonstration pay fixing policies, employees earning a salary that falls within this payband equivalent, will not receive an immediate pay increase (promotion) if appointed to this position. Future pay increases within the payband will be accomplished through the pay for performance management system. 
The National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), located at the foothills of the Rocky Mountains in Golden, Colorado is the nation's primary laboratory for research and development of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies.

From day one at NREL, you’ll connect with coworkers driven by the same mission to save the planet. By joining an organization that values a supportive, inclusive, and flexible work environment, you’ll have the opportunity to engage through our eight employee resource groups, numerous employee-driven clubs, and learning and professional development classes.

NREL supports inclusive, diverse, and unbiased hiring practices that promote creativity and innovation. By collaborating with organizations that focus on diverse talent pools, reaching out to underrepresented demographics, and providing an inclusive application and interview process, our Talent Acquisition team aims to hear all voices equally. We strive to attract a highly diverse workforce and create a culture where every employee feels welcomed and respected and they can be their authentic selves.

Our planet needs us! Learn about NREL’s critical objectives, and see how NREL is focused on saving the planet.

Note: Research suggests that potential job seekers may self-select out of opportunities if they don't meet 100% of the job requirements. We encourage anyone who is interested in this opportunity to apply. We seek dedicated people who believe they have the skills and ambition to succeed at NREL to apply for this role.

Job Description

The Renewable Resources and Enabling Sciences Center is a talented team of scientists (researchers) and technicians working in biological, chemical, and catalytic research approaches to renewable energy and materials for a circular economy. The center has strong focus in polymer design and upcycling, separations, synthetic biology and bioconversion, analytical sciences, computational modeling, and lignocellulosic chemistry and catalysis.

The Renewable Resources and Enabling Science Center at NREL has

an opening for a full-time research technician position which will support research and development activities related to developing microbial biocatalysts for conversion of biomass-derived substrates to fuels, chemicals, and materials. The successful candidate will work in the Agile BioFoundry (ABF) project and have experience in molecular biology and microbiology methods.

Responsibilities will include performing strain construction and evaluation. The successful candidate will have the following skills and experience:

    Plasmid construction
    Microbial genome engineering
    Microbial cultivation and sterile technique
    Strong communication and organizational skills, including clear record keeping
    Ability to maintain a clean lab space with utmost attention to safety
    Able to work independently and as part of a team
    Attention to detail
    Demonstrated experience in a biology laboratory



.
Basic Qualifications
High School Diploma or equivalent and 7 or more years of experience or equivalent relevant education/experience. Or, relevant Associate's Degree or certification program of comparable scope and 5 or more years of experience or equivalent relevant education/experience. Full knowledge of specialized focused support functions. Complete acquaintance with and understanding of the general and detailed aspects of the supported activities, and their practical applications to problems and situations ordinarily encountered. Proficient in research techniques and practices. Solid communication, interpersonal, project management and customer relations skills.

.
Additional Required Qualifications

    Working knowledge of bacterial genetics
    Strong problem-solving skills
    Strong written, verbal, team, interpersonal and communication skills.
    Proficient in Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint
    Substantial acquaintance with and understanding of general aspects of the job with a broad understanding of the detailed aspects of the job.
    Intermediate to advanced skills in research techniques and practices.

Preferred Qualifications

    Bachelor or Master’s degree in molecular biology or related a discipline
    Familiarity with bacterial metabolism, and physiology
    Experience with next-generation DNA sequencing
    Experience with analytical chemistry
    Experience with bioreactor cultivation or bioprocess development
    Ability to thrive in a dynamic role with greatly varying daily expectations in a Team atmosphere
    Proven ability to learn new skills in parallel with continually supporting ongoing work
The Research Assistant supports the day-to-day microbiology research in the Brinsmade lab and has duties that include but are not limited to:

Analyzing the next generation sequencing data and performing experiments in order to collect data for grant proposals, and to publish manuscripts
Ensuring the lab runs smoothly by keeping track of supplies and coordinating the duties of the lab staff
Performing microbiology experiments that include but are not limited to cultivating bacterial cells ((Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli), microscopy, image analysis, and other well-established laboratory techniques
Analyzing large data sets and next generation sequencing data (RNA-Seq, DNA-Seq, ChIP-Seq) using a high-performance computing cluster
Managing lab logistics and interacting with outside vendors
Attending lab meetings and, as appropriate, presenting their research to a subset of the Biology Department community, which includes other faculty, staff, postdocs and students

Qualifications

Bachelor's degree - preference for Master's degree
0 to 2 years of experience, in addition to completed academic laboratory courses
Experience working with Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) data - preference for microbiology context
Experience in bacteriology and molecular biology techniques
Consistent attention to detail and excellent organizational and communication skills
Knowledge of Galaxy, MS Office products, statistical/quantitative analysis, R and Python
Ability to collaborate respectfully with other members of laboratory; as well as to learn and take direction from personnel at all levels, share skills and knowledge with co-workers, and appreciate diversity within the workplace

Preferred qualification

Experience with benchtop fermenters and continuous bacterial cultivation (chemostats) 

IDT is the leading manufacturer of custom oligonucleotides and proprietary technologies for genomics applications. Our work is complex and cutting-edge, and our team members are curious, creative thinkers who understand that good data drives smart decisions. At IDT, we realize that although science may be uniform, people are unique. We promote a culture where engaged people are motivated and have opportunities to achieve their full potential, as part of one global team.

IDT is proud to work alongside a community of nine fellow Danaher Life Sciences companies. Together, we’re pioneering the future of science and medicine, developing products that enable researchers in the fight to save lives.

Job Title: Technician II (Gene Construction - SYB)

Location: Coralville, IA

Shift: Weekend Days (Friday/Saturday/Sunday 6:00am - 7:00pm)

Purpose statement:
The Technician II (Gene Construction - SYB) assembles, clones and purifies genes according to given specifications in preparation for final shipment to customers. This includes a variety of PCR methods and PCR Clean-up, bacterial transformation, colony selection, purification of genetic material, QC sampling, quantification and final shipment preparation.

Experience with sterile techniques, PCR, and pipette use is required for this role!

Job Specific Essential Functions:
Uses a variety of lab equipment to process products, including use of thermal cyclers, automated liquid handling workstations, incubators, and auto clave

Maintains accurate and detailed product and instrument records

Purifies and quantifies products and samples for quality control tests

Uses custom software packages to complete tasks and create final products

Assesses QC data accurately to route and process products to meet outlined specifications

Translates order requirements to process and route, or formulate, oligonucleotides to the customer’s specifications

Performs a variety of PCR protocols and subsequent post PCR cleanup steps

Performs a variety of restriction enzyme digests, appropriately handling enzymes

Uses aseptic techniques to minimize the risks of contamination to products

Utilizes a variety of DNA repair techniques, including site directed mutagenesis

Recognizes process or equipment problems and seeks appropriate assistance

Education:
Associate’s degree in science related field plus 2 years of applicable lab experience required

Bachelor’s degree in a science related field preferred

Experience:
Proficiency in a variety of PC software programs with strong working knowledge of Microsoft Office required

Experience with sterile techniques required

PCR and pipette experience required

Experience with gel electrophoresis technology preferred

Experience with sequencing data preferred

Required Skills:
Proficiency with pipetting and sample handling required

Multi-Tasking - Executes multiple processes simultaneously to ensure efficiency in product handling
 Join Land O’Lakes, Inc., and help us bring food from farmer to fork. We’re a global, Fortune 250 company and a farmer-owned cooperative. While benefits can vary by location and role, most offer:

    Medical, dental, vision, life and AD&D; short- and long-term disability insurance
    Retirement savings plan and profit-sharing plan, both with company match
    Paid time off and paid holidays, plus paid benefits for maternity and parental leaves

Laboratory Technician

We have a great opportunity with a Laboratory Technician role with Purina Animal Nutrition’s Emerging Technology Center molecular biology team.

This role directly supports our efforts to reduce the use of antibiotics and improve animal health and immunology using natural botanical additives and probiotics.

The core function of this role is to assist with Next Generation DNA sequencing workflows. But additional opportunities to grow outside of a sequencing role could include performing molecular, immune, and microbiology techniques:

    Next generation sequencing and library preparation for Illumina machines

    DNA/RNA extraction, PCR, qPCR

    Proficient working with DNA software, NCBI database, LIMS systems

    Ability to work with samples aseptically

    Support laboratory functions including but not limited to general housekeeping of allocated workspace, preparing reagents etc

    Plasmid extraction, transformation, CRISPR CAS9 techniques

    To maintain good lab practice at all times, to ensure the highest quality service to our customers

    To keep the laboratory and equipment in a good physical condition at all times

    To maintain a positive, professional and safe working environment

Qualifications

    A science related tertiary qualification, preferably in Molecular Biology, Immunology Microbiology or have relevant laboratory experience

Experience

    Hands-on experience on performing DNA-based SOPS, e.g. DNA extraction, qPCR, Electroporation, etc. or

    Hands-on experience on performing Immunoassay tests, e.g. ELISA, western blot, transepithelial electrical resistance measurements, or

    Hands-on experience on performing microbiology SOPS, e.g. bacterial fermentation, isolation streaks, and cell culture

Attributes

    Aseptic techniques to avoid the potential for contamination

    Good time management skills

    Proven ability to work efficiently without close supervision

    Act with integrity at all times and maintain a high standard of work

    Willing to learn and have a “can-do attitude”

    Able to follow instructions, either verbally directed or from scientific resources and SOPs

    Able to take initiative, and work in a fair and responsible way
